# AirDefence
An Intelligent Decision Support System for Ground Based Air Defence (GBAD) which will assist the operator in making a critical decision by evaluating the threat and assigning the most suitable weapon. We have used an integration of Fuzzy Inference System and Artificial Intelligence.
## Abstract
A Ground-Based Air Defense (GBAD) environment consists of multiple Defended Assets (DA’s) on the ground that require protection from enemy aerial threats. This protection is provided by pre-deployed weapons, the selection of which depends heavily on the officer’s input. A Fire Control Officer (FCO) is in charge of assessing threats and assigning the most appropriate weapon to neutralize them. Now this crucial decision making process must be swift and efficient, since threat evaluation and weapon kill probability calculation comprises of several parameters such as velocity, altitude, heading angle, range, carried ammunition etc. There is a high risk of making a human error and failing to assign the best weapon under stressful conditions. This inefficient and erroneous decision-making could result in resource wastage and jeopardize DA protection. The advancement of information systems on the battlefield had resulted in the ability to obtain information about enemy aircraft and analyze the situation in critical war situations. To solve this problem, a variety of existing Threat Evaluation Weapon Assignment (TEWA) models are being used, however
they are mainly focused on a single approach that fails to optimize resource allocation. We have opted for a hybrid approach of combining fuzzy inference system with artificial intelligence that will not only cater uncertain data but also include expert knowledge in decision making process. In this paper, we present a scheme for implementing an Intelligent Decision Support System, which will aid the operator in making a critical decision by evaluating the threat and assigning it the most
appropriate weapon efficiently and effectively. The sensory data is obtained from multiple radars, which maybe incorrect or incomplete therefore, a fuzzy knowledge-based system has been used for accurate data linking and providing it further in the connected modules. We have combined fuzzy rule based reasoning and mathematical formulation to calculate threat category and threat index respectively. Both of these serve as an input to the machine learning model for efficient weapon
allocation. In mathematical threat evaluation, we have optimized feature selection by including the most important parameters i.e. vitality of defended assets, and threat score. The weapon’s previous performance and familiarity of the officer with the weapon are used to calculate the single-shot kill probability based on which weapon assignment model is trained. These systems are being used in collaboration with Geographical Information System (GIS) to simulate the air defence environment and depict the results in a web application. All the modules are well tested and the weapon assignment model gives the efficient and accurate result with a rmse of value 0.03
